Previously on
Roswell, New Mexico...
I think someone's
getting murdered.
Oh, my God, it's Kyle.
So you're benched until
this handprint disappears.
EDUARDO:
If you want a chance
at solving this mystery,
you need to start
by asking the right questions.
You all right?
Let me heal your heart.
It's the only way to save Liz.
Do it. [groans]
MARIA:
It's not over
till the sky clears up.
Maria, hey!
ALEX:
You never forget
the exact moment
when something
terrible happens.
ROSA:
Like a song stuck in your head,
you replay all the details.
ISOBEL:
Asking yourself
if you could've stopped it.
LIZ:
If you'd only been smarter,
maybe you would've realized
how the pieces fit together.
MICHAEL:
But you didn't, because
every mystery has
one thing in common.
[yelling]
No! No! No! No!
No! [yells]
[clock ticking]
MAX:
Nothing's ever what it seems.
[whooshing]
Careful, kid.
You're manhandling
a Deep State conspiracy.
I, uh, spent some time
on the dark web.
I didn't find anything
about a magic radio.[laughs]
I also looked into this symbol,
and I couldn't find anything.
Have you seen
this marking before?
Do you believe in aliens?
I, uh, believe in statistics.
And I think it's improbable that
we're alone in the universe.
What if I told you,
the question isn't whether
or not they exist,
it's how do we start
a conversation?
Well, I would say,
"Good luck."
'Cause knowing us, if
they decided to show themselves,
we would probably just
kill them.
And that is why
Deep Sky was created.
Because I believe
it doesn't have to be that way.
If we could forge
a... connection
with beings from
another galaxy,
think of what could be possible.
Is there any part of you
that thinks
that aliens might pose a threat
to humanity?
See, I came to Deep Sky
for personal reasons.
Just like you did.
I believe we have the power
to shape the narrative
between our worlds,
and it is up to us to make sure
we do that correctly.
You think this symbol is
the key to doing that?
Maybe.
You asked whether the machine
was built for good or evil.
In my opinion,
there is never a reason
to be afraid of the mysteries
of the universe.
[whooshing]
[thudding]
Stay here.
♪
Any news?Looks like a break-in,
but nothing was stolen.
It doesn't make any sense.
Just tell us everything.
Start from the beginning.
When I got to the house,
Maria was unconscious.
So, of course, I rushed over
to check on her.
Then,
some guy
in an alien mask jumped me.
I was able to throw him off,
and he-he went
through the patio doors.
Before I could go after him,
there must have been a second
guy, 'cause I got slammed
into a wall, and that's when
everything started to get foggy.
Did you call the sheriff?
Well, she was already there
when I came to.
Sheriff thinks that
the Regiment wanted to scare me,
and then, Maria was just
in the wrong place
at the wrong time.
Okay, what about Kyle?
Well, his car's there,
but there's no sign of him.
The sheriff and I are
pulling warrants to search
any known affiliate
of the Regiment.
MICHAEL:
It's obviously them.
Jordan already tried
to kill Kyle once.
Yeah, but it's kind of hard to
commit a crime from behind bars.
So one of his bigoted buddies
did it for him.
Well, if they'd beat him up,
I'd buy it, but kidnapping...
[sighs heavily]
No. Kyle wouldn't run.
Not with Maria injured.
MICHAEL:
Ash is drying up.
The funeral Maria saw
would be any day now.
Kyle is not dead.
In Maria's vision,
she was healthy.
Now she's in a coma,
so I-I guess we know
she can change the future.
The question is how much?
There is one more thing.
When I was driving
to the house,
there was this flash of light
off in the desert.
I didn't tell the sheriff.
'Cause the last
thing we need is
Graham Green on
the case as well.
Okay.
I'll look into the
alien blast in the desert.
[sighs] Okay, so if the Regiment
doesn't have Kyle, who does?
That is an excellent question,
and I am gonna
head back to the house
[phone chimes]to see if I can answer it.
They let Isobel in to see Maria.
ISOBEL:
DeLuca?
Are you in here?
What the hell's going on
with your mind?
[exhales]
Come on, lady, you can't
ghost your own party.
[rumbling][Isobel gasps]
[glass breaking][rumbling increasing]
[gasps]
Hey.
Where's Mimi?
I-I thought you guys
were gonna bring her.I couldn't.
She just-- She's not
herself right now.
I tried explaining
what was happening,
and I don't think she got it,
she just kept yelling,
"The alien will hear her."
That's from A Quiet Place.
It could be a clue.
Or maybe she's just
freaked out that
her daughter's in a coma.
I'm guessing you haven't
found her yet?
Yes and no.
I-I can feel her in there.
I just, I can't reach her.
I don't understand this, Liz.
I don't understand.
How is she in a coma?
I don't know.
I don't know. It, uh...
I mean, it has to be
the neurodegeneration,
but I just, I don't understand
how she's progressed
so much worse than Mimi.
I mean, surely you have
a theory, though.
I mean, isn't this kind of what
you were working on at Genoryx?
If I just had more time...
But we don't have time, Liz.
I mean,
what do you think
we should do?
Find Kyle.
He's the one who's been
monitoring her, not me.
Keep this on her while
you're not in the mindscape.
Rosa, wait.
No.
If anything, at least
it'll keep her brain
from degrading any further.
I mean, if it's all
we can do for her,
at least it's something.
[electricity buzzing]
[breathing unsteadily]
Rosa.
[buzzing stops]
I'm not the girl I was
a year ago.
I'll be fine.ISOBEL:
She's in there somewhere.
I'm gonna find her.
And you find Kyle.
MAX:
It's like he just vanished.
The sheriff's got him in
the missing persons database.
The first 48 hours
are the most critical.
Did you get a dog?
Oh, uh, Jones did.
I guess I'm stuck
with him.
Can't really tell us apart.
He's probably just hungry.
MAX:
This was the only room targeted.
Henry IV, Part 2.
Of all the books.
Last time I was here was
when I took that job at Genoryx.
Oh, yeah.
Sorry that didn't work out.
Let's just figure out
what happened to Kyle.
Okay, so, have you noticed
anything out of the ordinary?
Anything missing?
No.
Like I told you
this morning.
Right, but there has
to be a clue, so,
do you think it's
an alien thing?
Have you checked
for fractal patterns?
Yeah, I checked.
There was none.
But you haven't found anything?
That's why I let you join me
at an active crime scene.
Maybe you can see
something I missed.What?
I haven't been here in a year.
Then why did you
insist on coming?
Because something here
has to point to
why Kyle is missing
and Maria is in a coma.
Right, exactly. So why don't you
just focus on that?
Yes, I am focusing.
I am focusing on
attempting to solve this
together.
So why are you still
pushing me away?
I... I should feed the dog.
Your mother said
the alien would hear you.
Well, I'm here.
The alien.
I've arrived.[rumbling]
Okay. Okay.
So you're going through
a goth phase.
That's nothing to be ashamed of.
You know?
I'm just gonna stay here
at the Overlook Hotel bar
until you decide
you want to talk to me.
I didn't realize "feed the dog"
also meant walk him.
I looked at the house,
and you're right,
there's nothing there.
I don't think the house
is the crime scene.
I think this is.
It was like this
when I got here.
Did you just conveniently
forget to tell us
that you had something
buried in the desert?
Well-- [sighs]
I wasn't sure it was relevant.
Given we're looking
for a motive,
this is absolutely relevant.
Forget motive, but I think
I found your weapon.
You're the only person
I know that can
test blood off-book.
[exhales sharply]
DNA is a path
I know how to follow.
Okay.
All right. All right.[phone ringing]
Hey, Michael. Yeah.
What's up?MICHAEL:
You need to meet me
at the radio tower
by Verna's Vista.
I think I got a lead
on what happened to Valenti.
So, lightning caused the flash
that I saw last night?
No. Skies were clear.
It was this.
Kyle's radio.
In the words
of Great-Grandpa Valenti,
"Let this guide the way."
And it did.
Right into this pole.
I mean, this much damage,
it takes a lot of velocity.
My guess is the glass
inside the radio provided it.
It was wired
to a prehistoric transmitter
Papa Jim tucked
inside of it.
My guess? Valenti used the radio
to call for help,
but it malfunctioned
due to Jim's
primitive understanding
of alien tech.
And it fried every tower
in a 20-mile radius.
Okay, so, then,
why did it hit this one?
It's the closest to Max's house.
And when I heard
Sanders giddy
that pricey
communication equipment
was scattered
throughout the desert
because of an electrical surge,
I started thinking
about the explosion you saw
when you were driving.
Which led me here
to find a splintered
Valenti heirloom and...
suicidal bats.
The surge killed
all these bats?
What do I look like,
a zoologist?
All I'm saying is
there's a good chance
whoever answered the SOS
has Valenti.
Or whoever's blood
is on that shovel has Valenti.
We found a shovel
by a large, empty hole about a
half mile from Max's back door.
A hole?
That's your idea
of safekeeping?
Please don't tell me
that someone
is walking around Roswell
right now
with the off-brand lightsaber.The what?
You didn't tell her.
When we found Jones,
he had a sword
made of alien glass.
The hiding place
shouldn't have been a problem
since I'm the only one
that can touch it.
Are you saying you had
a sword that recognizes DNA?
Burns the crap out of anybody
without this dude's face.
Does this mean
that Jones could be out?
No.
No. First thing I did,
I went to the cave.
He's still there,
safely in stasis.
Okay, so... could they have
lifted it with something?
Maybe.
But they would have to know
what it was.
And where to dig.
[sighs]
This wasn't the Regiment.
I will put
in a request
to look at traffic cams, see if
anyone answered Kyle's call.
Our best bet
is still the science.
If we can figure out
whose blood is on that shovel,
we'll have a good idea
what happened to Kyle.
Can you track the SOS?
The radio signal?
You know it literally travels
in every direction at once?
I'll hit up Alex.
See if we can turn "no way
in hell" into a fighting chance.
[talking quietly]
Hey.
What happened? Do you know
why bats hit the window?
Something messed with
their echolocation.
Did one of them bite you?
Uh, no. No, no, no.
Um, j-just a rabies shot.
To be safe.
The machine did
this, didn't it?
And if this messed with
their radar,
just imagine what else
it could do.
I don't know
what the hell I was thinking.
I-I was just so desperate
for answers...
You are not your father.
You were careful.
Laparoscopic technology
is noninvasive.
It was a minimal risk
that led to
an unprecedented breakthrough.
Okay, but at what cost?
Do not lose faith
in yourself, Alex.
Not now.
Let me handle the bats.
You stay on the machine.
And then...
we'll figure out
the next steps together.
[phone chimes]
Here you go.
Have an out-of-this-world day.
[lively chatter, rock music
playing over speakers]
Maria.
[electricity buzzing,
water sloshing]
[electricity buzzing, crackling]
[plates clattering
and grease sizzling loudly]
[jukebox clicking loudly]
PETE:
I just don't know, and I--
He's got this way
of making weird things happen.
Ok...
TAYLOR:
I think this is
all in your head, Deputy.COOK: Order up!
TAYLOR:
Need a little help,
I know a great doctor, okay?
I'm sick of the way
you talk about him.
PETE:
Every time Evans is around,
something strange
is going on.
That's all I'm gonna say.
Sounds like it's more like
in your head
something strange
going on.
What?
It wasn't the Regiment.
Evans is slippery.
[high-pitched ringing,
electricity crackling]
[sounds continue loudly]
Talk to me, Goose.
Can you hear me?
[object clatters on floor]
[panting]
Tell me what happened to you.
[gasps]
♪
[creaking]
[gasps]
[exhales]
Good. You're back.
I need your help.
God! [shouts in Spanish]
[sighs]
Genoryx, I would've had
a match by now.
Can I help?
Not unless you have
a rapid DNA test in your pocket.
[high-pitched ringing]
[machine beeps, whirring]
Thanks.
[sighs]
I'm sorry
that I...
walked off into the desert
without you.
You should've told me you had
something buried out there.
I know.
Why didn't you?
Well, I don't really know
how to act around you,
um, since yesterday.
Max, putting the handprint on me
was an accident.
And I'm fine.
Yesterday you were honest
with me and today you aren't,
so what has changed?
[electricity buzzing
and zapping]
[machine beeps]
Oh. Oh, God.
[sighs]
Uh, let me...
No, no, no,
it-it's-it's not electrical.
I got to get somebody
out here.
Okay. Well, I'm gonna go
check in with Taylor
and see if there are
any new leads.
Yeah.
[sighs]
I'm sorry to have
pulled you away.
Did you connect with Maria?
No, and it's getting worse.
It's like...
It's not even that
I just can't connect with her.
It's like there's something that
is actively keeping me away.
I don't know.
It's a nightmare.
Well, good.
We can compare nightmares.
Whoa.
[high-pitched ringing,
loud chatter]
[IV dripping
and phone ringing loudly]
The world has gone from regular
to screaming at me.
Have you ever heard a
mosquito flap its wings?
'Cause trust me,
you don't want to.
[sounds continue loudly]
I really need to figure out
a way to get it together.
[panting]:
I can't...
Hey, Rosa? Rosa?Yeah, what?
Hey, look at me, look at me.
Yeah.
Look at me.
Take a deep breath.
[breathes deeply]
Just relax, okay?
[sounds fade]
There.
Listen, alien puberty
is rough.
Your body is changing
in beautiful
and unexpected ways.
No.
And...
Don't Judy Blume
me right now.
Okay, I'm also not even
actually an alien.
Well, you did spend
ten years soaking in a pod,
which lends you a certain
alien je ne sais quoi...
[gasps]
Oh, my God.
"The alien will hear her."
Rosa, I think that Mimi
was talking about you.
I thought "white as a sheet"
was just an expression.
You said this had to do with
Kyle and Maria.
What are we doing here?
Kyle sent out
a radio transmission
before he disappeared
last night.
I need your help figuring out
if someone received it.
Uh, I-I mean, radios are omni...
Directional, I know.
But the Valenti family radio,
it's a little special.
Hence the suicidal bats.
I mean, honestly,
I feel like
this-this tower, it's,
uh, it's a dead end.
I mean, you have any
other leads or...
Well, what's wrong
with this tower?
If Kyle's radio was an SOS, what
if it transmitted his location?
What if someone
came out here and took Kyle?
What if he was
abducted by aliens?
I mean, you don't
have any proof.
Max found
a bloody shovel nearby.
Hey, did one of them bite you?
Uh, no.
Um, j-just a rabies shot.
Where's the shovel now?
Liz took it.
Look, I'll talk
to you later, okay?
[high-pitched ringing]
I'm not doing this with you.
What are we doing, Alex?
'Cause it sure ain't
investigating a crime scene.
I'm a cyber intelligence
specialist.
I'm not a magician.
Well, I just want you to be
a guy who gives a damn.
When I thought
it was me who was killed
in Maria's vision, you said
you would burn the world down
to find out
who hurt me.
Don't Kyle and Maria
at least deserve a few flames?
I didn't say
I wasn't gonna do anything.
I just don't want you
anywhere near
whatever it is I decide to do.
[engine starts]
[buzzing]
Are you sure this is safe?
What if I break
something?
I don't think
anyone would notice.
[clanging]
I feel her in here.
It's likeshe's...
just underneath
the surface.
Are-are you getting anything?
Besides creeped out?I can feel her, Rosa.
We just have to try to listen.
[exhales][gasps]
Obviously,
that's not working.
Okay, Rosa, well,
you just have to try.
I've never done
this before, okay?
I don't know what I'm
supposed to be hearing.
She's pulling away.
She's getting more distant.
I-I'm having trouble connecting.
Rosa, see if you can think
about Maria.
I'm trying, okay?
Stop stage-momming me.
Okay.
[cacophonous sounds]
[groaning]
[panting]
Are you okay?[gasps]
Rosa.
[door swings shut]
SANDERS:
Eight towers down
and enough junk to bankroll
a year's worth of margaritas.
You still trying
to figure out what fried 'em?
Yeah.
And I'm pretty sure my friend
knows something about it, but...
he won't tell me,
for some reason.
I assume this friend is Alex?
[chuckles]
I ain't blind, kid.
I mean, I am blind,
but even I can see
that you two are a thing.
We're not.
And since he won't tell me,
I have to figure it out myself.
I was supposed to protect Kyle.
And Maria,
who's currently in a damn coma! [high-pitched ringing]
Doesn't make any sense.
But it does.
You're just so busy
beating yourself up
for yesterday you can't focus
on what happened today.
[chuckles softly]
Okay, smart-ass.
[patting]
You tell me what I'm missing.
I'm guessin'...[sniffles] Mm.
...you haven't figured out
what took out the vampire bats.
Vampire bats?
They were the only type
affected.
You didn't think
of that?
Keep talking. What makes
vampire bats different?
They hunt using infrared.
Radio waves travel
in all directions,
but infrared
only travels in one.
Were the bats
at all of the towers?No.
Just three of 'em.
What if the radio signal
masked the real signal,
which is what the bats detected?
And they were only
at these three towers
'cause they were only drawn
to the infrared signal.
And so was the radio.
That's why it crashed
into the tower.
Where did you find the bats?
So these
three towers
transmitted the real signal.
Which sent it here.
If I follow that trail,
I find Kyle.
The only traffic cam
in the vicinity
caught it driving eastbound
at 11:07 p.m.
And the two
guys in front
were wearing
alien masks.
You ran the plates?
Belongs to a Samuel Cook,
proud member of the Regiment.
But he claims that
he never uses it.
So either
he's lying
or...Somebody borrowed it
with the intention to return it
before he even realized
it was gone.
Either way, our
masked crusaders
sure didn't want to ditch it,
but it died on them.
Alternator's blown,
battery's dead.
Everything
electronic,
kaput.
There's, uh, blood
on the steering wheel.
Driver was injured.
Or burned.
Didn't realize
you owned a sword that
could melt through metal.
[chuckles]
I don't.
[stammers] They must have...
brought that with 'em.
Whatever you think of me,
Deputy,
let's get one thing straight:
I'm a good cop,
and I know when someone's lying.
Now, you're not leaving here
until you give me some truth.
ALEX:
Hey.
Uh, no new news
on the DNA samples
because the machine
is broken,
and the parts
are on backorder.
It's just that kind
of day, isn't it?God, at Genoryx
I would have had this
done in an hour,
and then I'd be able
to find Kyle,
and I'd be able to save Maria.
And maybe all the pressure
you're putting on yourself
isn't helping.
I'm frustrated, Alex.
Why?
Because you couldn't cure
an incurable brain disorder?
At Genoryx...
Hey.
Just forget about Genoryx.
Okay, if you sell
your soul to the devil,
you will always get burned.
Spoken from experience.
So what would you do...
if you were me?
Honestly, I, uh...
I would ask Kyle for advice.
Me, too.
[snorts]
[sighs]
Any ideas what he'd say?
Yeah, actually. That's easy.
He would say, "Nothing has
stopped you before,
and nothing is going
to stop you now."
All right, what about you?
'Cause you're clearly
wrestling with something.
Anything I would bring up,
he would just start ranting
about his code.
[laughing]:
The code.
"Can't give you access to
patients' private files, Liz."
"Stealing resources from
a hospital is wrong, Liz."
He always tries to do
the right thing, you know.
It's not always as easy
as he makes it look.
You know, it's not, like...
it's not always so obvious.
Or maybe it is, and sometimes...
we just don't see it.
You know what,
let me, um...
let me have
the samples.
I think I can get 'em processed.
Really?Yeah.
Okay. Uh, this is the one that
I collected from the shovel.
The other one is Kyle's.
Call me as soon as
you have something.
Yeah, I will.
I'm gonna need a little bit
of your magic, mi bruja.
What would you see
that I'm not?
I don't know how,
but I'm gonna fix this, okay?
'Cause I got your back.
I always do.
[gasps]
I'm sorry I-I pressured you,
and...
No, it's not your fault.
I-I should be
in there, helping,
and not out here
falling apart.
Rosa, we are all falling apart.
I want to find her so bad
I didn't think about how you--
I'm really sorry.
I don't know,
I guess I just thought
that when I got sober,
life would get easier.
I guess it just never will.
Yeah.
Life never gets easier.
We just get stronger.
But it doesn't matter
how strong you get
if you don't stop and
give yourself some credit.
For what it's worth,
I believe that
you can handle this.
Yeah, but I can't.
I mean, I can't even
think straight.
It's so loud.
Yeah.
No, I...
I know that
you mean that literally,
which, obviously,
I can't relate to, but, um...
...after Noah...
[exhales]
...it felt like
he was everywhere.
And I really had to learn...
how to block out that noise.
What makes you feel
safe, calm? Anything?
Music.
I guess the jukebox.
I play a song a lot
when I'm upset.
In the mindscape,
I heard music,
but then there was
a rush of noise.
Do you think the music
is part of a clue?
I don't know.
I couldn't really hear it.
Could you try?
Yeah. Yeah, I'll try.
[indistinct loud chatter]
[plates, cups clattering][sizzling]
[music playing, loud chatter]
ISOBEL:Try and strip away
the noise.
[cries out][chatter continues]
♪ I'm so dizzy.
[gasps]:
Crashdown.
I heard the song
playing underneath everything,
and it felt like Maria was
in the quiet of that chaos.
Come on, we gotta go.
Hey.
I came as soon as I could
get the sheriff off my back.
Did you try to heal Maria?
No.
I found a handprint
on her scalp.
Well, I-I put a pillow
under her head.
[scoffs]
All I did was-was
lift her head.
Okay, I was...
I was upset.
I was trying to help.
Is she in a coma because of me?
That's the only explanation,
Max.
I mean, after everything,
I'm still the problem.
I mean, is this ever gonna stop?No.
It's not going to, not if
you keep acting like this,
like-like you're the problem.
Is this why you're
still keeping secrets?
I thought we were past this.
Yeah, we are. We are.
I just-- I wasn't prepared
for today.
None of us were.
[sighs] Okay.
You said you spoke
to the sheriff?
Did she have any leads?
No.
Nothing.
Excuse me.
Uh, I need a DNA analysis.
Fill out a request.
I can turn it
around by tomorrow.
Uh, it's for Director Ramos.
He was just here.
Didn't mention anything
about a DNA analysis.
Well, I can have him come back
here and request it himself.
I just feel like, with
everything he's dealing with
right now, I...All right, all right.
Back up the bus.Thank you.
You think it'll take
a while or...?
This isn't
Roswell General.
[door closes]
[keypad beeping]
[computer beeps]
They're a 29.3% match.
Okay, uh, and what does
that mean, exactly?
Blood relatives.
Guessing you know
who this is.
The other could be
an uncle, aunt, nephew.
Anything else?
No. That's it.
Thanks.
Sing it again.[sighs]
It was something like...
♪ Spinning around
in circles. ♪
I know that it's in here, but I
just don't remember the title.
[sighs]
Oh, this is it.
That's right, "I'm so dizzy."
[sighs] I knew that it was
one of the old songs
from before
we had updated the jukebox.
So do you think that she's in
a memory with the old jukebox?
I mean, she could be.
I... [sighs]
I mean, maybe she didn't
mean this song.
Maybe it's the one
that we updated it to.
'Cause...
"Roof With a Hole"
by The Meat Puppets?
Meat Puppets?
I know where Maria's trying
to tell us to look for her.
The hole in the roof.
[insects trilling]
Trail of death ends here.
[phone line ringing]
AUTOMATED VOICE:
Please leave a message
after the tone.
[beeps]
You were wrong.
Kyle's radio
did hijack the towers
in Roswell last night,
and I know why.
Kyle's little radio alien thing
was looking for its receiver.
Its other half.
I tracked it
to this secure facility,
uh, that I cannot get into,
so...
Yeah, I don't need
to spell it out for you.
You know what that means, right?
Whoever's inside knows
what happened to Valenti.
EDUARDO:
Just figure
it out.
I'll be there soon.
What are you doing in here?
The bats weren't drawn
to the Lockhart machine.
They were drawn to this radio.
Be careful with that.
It is one of a kind.
It's two of a kind, actually.
My friend has the other one.
He activated it
last night.
He sent off an SOS signal.
You received it.
That's why the bats
hit the window.
But you lied to me about that.
Which makes me wonder
if you've been lying to me
from the moment I met you.
Did you know
that your DNA
is a 29.3% match
to a friend of mine's?
The missing person
I mentioned.
Your nephew.
I don't have a nephew.
And you don't have
a sample of my DNA.
I hacked into
the medical database.
And the Department of Defense.
Wonder if Kyle knew
that he was calling a man
with suspected terrorist ties
when he activated
the radio.
I guess he knew
something was up.
That's why he hit you
with the shovel.
Your blood's all over it.
You're making something
out of nothing.
I really wish I was.
That was a hefty bandage
for a rabies shot.
I trusted you, and
I shouldn't have.
Where's Kyle?
[exhales]
Once again, wrong question.
I'll be watching her vitals.
Any sudden drops in heart rate
or blood pressure,
and I'm pulling you out, okay?
You ready?Yeah.
I had a hiding
spot up here.
[gasps]
I don't think Maria's in there.
No.
But something is.
Okay.
But why all the subterfuge?
You know,
since this is literally
my second
mindscape rodeo...
I think there's only
one way to find out.
ROSA:Maria.
We're inside
of a memory.
There's something
that she wants us to see.
Maria?
Maria, hey. Uh...
Hey.
[groans]There you go.
There you go.
What happened?
The Regiment--
they attacked Kyle.
At least I think
it was them.
They had masks on, but...
He couldn't
breathe, Max.
He was dying.
I found his bag,
and I gave him some adrenaline.
Where is he now?
MARIA:
He's out there still, I think.
Maria, what happened?
ROSA:
Max said he was attacked
by somebody,
but I don't see anybody.
Someone came from behind me
and they-they grabbed me.
Then Kyle, he came in and
he-he turned the radio on,
and somehow it-it just went
flying out through the doors.
It shattered them.
And the guy
just threw me.
Where's Kyle?
He's gone.
So is your assailant.
So my vision was true.
I couldn't save him.
Max said that
Maria was unconscious.
And he said that he threw
the guy through this window
and that's
how it broke.
Why would he lie about that?
Must have been exhausted,
poor things.
None of us were prepared
for today.
I'm so sorry.
Oh, the case
that Max asked for--
did it do him
any good?
What case?
You didn't get this from me.
LIZ:
"Evidence suggests the suspect
may have sustained
third-degree burns to the hand."
Only got one burn
victim last night.
Max wanted
a DNA sample.
Lucky we hadn't taken
the trash out yet.
Gave him some gauze.
I hope it helps.
[papers rustling]
Thanks, Kate.
Maria's lucky to have you
looking out for her.
[groans]
[sighs]
What's wrong, Max?
Your visions are
genetically linked.
Yeah,
to my great-grandmother Louise.
Why does that matter?
Did you get a dog?
Jones did.
Henry IV, Part 2.
Of all the books.
Did you just conveniently
forget to tell us
that you had something
buried in the desert?
I wasn't sure it was relevant.
Yesterday you were
honest with me
and today you aren't,
so what has changed?
Hey, I came as soon as I could
get the sheriff off my back.
I found a handprint
on her scalp.
This why you're still
keeping secrets?
You didn't give me any answers
'cause you didn't know anything.
["Sound of War" by Tommee
Profitt and Fleurie playing]
♪ Just when you think
you're saved ♪
♪ Just when you've locked
your door... ♪
[inhales deeply]
Let's go find ourselves
some bad men.
Louise was your
great-grandmother.
Your whole family had visions,
your mother, your grandmother.
Max, why are you...?
What was my grandmother's name?
♪ You can't run...
You don't know,
do you?
Maria's mind isn't crumbling.
It's been taken hostage.
That's why she hid the clue.
You're not Max.
Stay away from me.
I'm not gonna hurt you
as long as
you give me exactly what I need.
I'm not giving you anything.
Well, darlin', that is
just a fight you will not win.
MARIA:
[screams] No! No!
[clay shatters]
[Maria gasps]
Your grandmother's name
was Patricia.
LIZ:
I need to tell you guys
something.
I don't think Max is Max.
Because he's not.
He's Jones.
♪ Steady now, breathe, breathe
♪ You can't run
Who the hell are you?
♪ You can't hide...
That is a very
complicated question.
I believe you boys
have something
that belongs to me.
♪ Turn your ear...
What is it you people say?
Never bring a knife
to a gunfight?
[inhales sharply]
Well...
...we'll see about that.
[men grunting, screaming]
♪
Well, Lucky...
...we have some work to do.